[Music]
men wanted for hazardous journey low
wages bitter cold long hours of complete
darkness safe return
doubtful honor and recognition in event
of success this is the ad that allegedly
appeared in The Times when Sir Ernest
Shackleton decided to build a crew for
his famous and Arctic expedition even
though the ad might just be a myth the
journey itself became one of the
greatest survival stories of all time
Sir Ernest Shackleton didn't really need
any advertisement at all he was already
a legend among British seamen and
explorers alike in 1908 he led the
British Antarctic expedition and claimed
a Victorian land plateau region of
Antarctica for the crown in the same
expedition people from Shackleton's
party became the first to reach the top
of Mount Erebus and artiguez second
largest volcano his new daring idea for
a hazardous journey gained so much
attention from newspapers that soon sir
Shackleton had a crowd of volunteers
knocking at his door he carefully
selected only 27 of them and oh boy did
he choose wisely they were men of Steel
no doubt knowing what a huge goal they
set for themselves with those men Ernest
Shackleton intended to reach Antarctica
and cross the whole continent via the
South Pole not exactly a walk in the
park if you asked me on December 5th
1914 they left the shores of South
Georgia in a ship called endurance
endurance was one of the best ships of
its time to deal with ice she had a
sturdy hull an 85 inch thick heel and a
350 horsepower steam engine with all
that might she could rim and break tons
of ice with ease but still she had one
crucial weakness she was designed to
crush the ice but not to sustain being
trapped in it if she would ever get
caught by ice building up around her and
pushing with all its weight she would be
crushed
the immense pressure and guess what
that's exactly what happened this was a
bad year for crossing the icy waters of
Weddell Sea at first endurance was
managing the drifting ice easily but on
January 18th it finally overcame her
huge slabs of drifting ice called pack
ice have an unpredictable nature it
comes and goes and can turn into a small
iceberg in just several days so this ice
is one of the most dangerous kind
imaginable the initial hope of sir
Shackleton and his crew was that the ice
wouldn't build up around the ship too
much but by the 24th of January it was
obvious that the pressure on the ship's
hull would only get worse the next few
days the crew tirelessly crushed and
sawed off the ice around endurance with
their own hands not to free the ship
completely that would be impossible but
to push endurance back and leave the
rest of the ice to her engine and keel
this idea was promising but eventually
fell short the ice in front of the ship
was just too strong and the progress was
too small the only hope for endurance
was if it could stay undamaged until
spring
passing the winter on a ship trapped in
ice is no joke the pressure on the
ship's hull was rising just like the
pressure on the seaman's will if not for
sir Shackleton skill of managing his
crew this story might have ended right
here but they believed in their captain
who they refer to simply as boss he
sustained discipline on his ship by
implementing a stable routine for each
and every crew member everyone stayed
busy brightening each day with some kind
of fulfillment they even found a way to
play soccer on the ice around the ship
everyone on the ship knew that their one
hope in such a dire situation was Sir
Shackleton's command so their spirit
remained untouched despite all the
effort of shoveling new ice and snow
building up around the ship the pressure
on the ship only rose spring didn't
bring the much-needed relief for the
endurance from time to time the crew
would hear unpleasant crackles and shock
sounds at first Shackleton said it was
whales passing underneath the ice but
everybody knew that the ship may soon
start to crumble summer came and went
only to bring more young ice on October
27th Shackleton ordered his men to
abandon ship which was already heavily
damaged he promised the crew that he
would bring them home saying it in the
most simple and encouraging way he could
we're going home but notes in his diary
reveal his uncertainty the task is to
reach land with all the members of the
expedition it's hard to write how I feel
the camp was settled about a mile away
from the ship the crew still had some
supplies and three lifeboats but the
resources were limited and they were
isolated from the world drifting on ice
across the Weddell Sea with no means to
get more food
on November 21st 1915 endurance is
finally crushed and buried under the ice
much like the hope of fulfilling the
goal of the expedition on December 20th
Shackleton decides that they'll head
towards what he thought was the nearest
land
Paulette Island what they didn't realize
is that the ice they were marching
through was drifting toward the east and
Paulette Island was on the west by the
end of their journey through the ice
fields they were even further from land
than when they began still this March
was not completely pointless at the end
of it
Shackleton and his men spotted another
Island Elephant Island stepping on solid
ground felt like euphoria 4:28 tired
seamen
first days on land were spent refilling
food supplies with wildlife it was their
first warm meal in months but their joy
was overshadowed by one terrible truth
Elephant Island was not much better than
a drifting ice slab they had no way to
send a message and no ships would ever
be coming their way there would be no
rescue but Sir Shackleton wasn't one to
surrender and leave his men to certain
demise instead he took one lifeboat and
only five men and went off to find help
yes he knew what they were facing their
destination was back to South Georgia
800 miles away and they would have to
cross the stormiest part of the ocean
with waves more than 50 feet high
Shackleton left command with his
righteous right hand Frank wild
allegedly they were so close they could
finish each other sentences
it was Wilde who helped keep the crew
safe they were cold and didn't have much
food but still he managed to hold them
together well and even built a hut for
them from the two remaining lifeboats
meanwhile sir Shackleton and the five
other men started their journey on the
24th of April 1916 behind their back
another field of pack ice came and
closed off the island from them there
was no turning back the most fearsome
enemy of seamen in the coal is the water
itself if your clothes get wet there's
almost no way to get warm again imagine
what happened to those men in the little
lifeboat going through the huge waves
ice was building up on the boards of the
boat increasing its weight drastically
along with its chances of sinking one
time Shackleton thought he saw a line of
white skies a crack in the storm clouds
but he soon realized it was the top of a
gigantic wave this was the inexplicable
horror they dealt with as they inch
slowly toward South Georgia during this
month-long journey
they witnessed storms unlike any of them
had ever seen they had to fight not only
for their own life
but for the lives of their 22 friends
still waiting on Elephant Island to be
rescued maybe that's what drove them to
succeed after all on May 10th they
finally reached the shores of South
Georgia
not welcoming chores with warm beds and
a good meal be assured it was rocky
cliffs with absolutely no place to land
it took a whole day to manage the
landing and even when they stepped on
the ground
it wasn't the victory they already well
deserved they had to climb the cliffs
and cross several mountain ridges to get
to civilization and their sheer
exhaustion only left them a little time
to do so on their way
Shackleton even restricted himself and
his men from sleeping more than five
minutes at a time in fear that they
wouldn't wake up when they reached the
last Ridge they were at their limit but
suddenly a familiar sound brought back
their energy a whistle that choose to
wake up whalers in the morning the
Whalers knew Shackleton but at this
point it was pretty hard to recognize
him his bad condition alarmed the
Whalers and in no time they were helping
to rescue their friends on Elephant
Island and what a miracle they were all
alive and well they survived as
Shackleton recalls he and his five
comrades were thrilled to find the
Whaler village not because they knew
they were safe but because they knew
their friends would be saved
and this is how the story of the most
miraculous survival ended sir Shackleton
may have never reached his goals of
crossing the Antarctic continent from
shore to shore but his name will always
be remembered in the history of
Antarctic exploration so what's your
favorite story about explorers or
fearless seamen in general let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go anywhere just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life